#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =
MobiSN is a software package for cellular phones to form mobile ad hoc social networks. Mobile social networks are self-configuring social networks that connect users using mobile devices, such as laptops, PDAs, and cellular phones. The construction of such social networks over mobile devices in the events or at locations, such as conferences, expositions, galleries, stadiums, and restaurants enable people to communicate and share their experiences without the need to have Internet access and with minimum required infrastructure. These networks shift from the existing social networking archetype towards a mobile ad hoc network (MANET) that potentially connects all types of devices that are equipped with short-range communication medium, such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.
 
= Architecture =
In the current version of MobiSN , users share a global profile ontology (user.owl). The ontology directory essentially defines a hierarchy where each node corresponds to a lexicon or a categorical term. It is almost a rooted tree structure, with rare nodes having multiple parents. The subordination relationship between nodes is interpreted as the involvement (topic/subtopic) relationship, while the layers of nodes correspond to intuitively perceived levels of abstractness of topics. Each node is described by primitives which are generic concepts that include other concepts. Users can navigate from the root of each hierarchy down to the leaves to reach the directory of interest. With the global ontology defined, user profile matching is based on the same ontology matching. The basic idea is to compute the semantic distance between the entities of two profiles. The semantic distance defines the distance as a “relative” distance to the distance between nodes and their common ancestors, thus it integrates the edge weight with the depth and the length of the shortest path. We are working on extending our work to support heterogeneous ontologies.
 
= Implementation =
MobiSN is implemented in Java 2 Micro Edition (J2ME). J2ME’s Bluetooth API (JSR 82) is used for Bluetooth-enabled mobile phones. It implements all of the core features of a mobile ad hoc social networking, including: profile generating, friend matchmaking, routing control. We also implemented the ad hoc multi-hop text messaging and file sharing as part of the service pack for MobiSN.
